>> Speaker 1: So I'm currently working on
a large-scale platform for e-learning with
a small team for backend devs, so
we're starting out the project as modular.
So if we need to turn it into
microservices, it's easy.
We're planning to use DDD,
do you have any suggestions for us?
>> Erik Reinert: Planning to use what?
>> Speaker 1: Domain-driven design.
>> Erik Reinert: Okay, yeah, I mean,
when you use domain-driven design,
you really wanna have good structure and
understanding of your domains basically,
how do you define those domains?
What exactly do they connect to?
Right, so domains could be something
as simple as saying, okay,
this is all frontend learning,
this is all backend learning, or
it could be structured more
on the organization, right?
Like this team owns this domain versus
owning that domain or things like that.
Domain-driven designs are really
just about you separating
how you want to separate your platform.
In a way where you can easily organize it,
that's really it.
So if you're more focused on how to manage
and maintain these domains, then it
might be helpful to think about the teams
that are gonna be working on it or
the people that are gonna
be working on it.
Think about how you isolate those
components through those teams so
that it's easier for
them to do what they need to do, and
they're not impacting any other teams.
You should probably sit down and
break down your company into
the domains that you want and
then let that trickle through all of
your designs and how you do things.
>> Erik Reinert: But
if you don't know those domains,
you gotta start there [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 3: Especially with the user
feedback portion you touched on,
it feels kinda cyclical of put this out,
get it back.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: But working with designs,
right?
How do you make sure you go back to the
design and look at that versus just okay,
let's implement this piece kind of thing,
is it just diligence?
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah, I mean it's a bit
of that culture we were talking about
before.
If you make a design once, and
then you keep iterating over it,
but you don't really know why it was done
the way it was, right or things like that.
Then you'll have this amalgamation of what
it used to be and now what it is, right?
And you can easily crawl away from why
some of the decisions were even made.
I've done this myself
where I've moved something
from asynchronous to synchronous or
vice versa.
And then somebody being well, no, no, no,
we did this because of this,
we don't wanna move back, right?
Having good context and keeping that
context can be really important.
I mean, I think this also kind
of just is also a bit focused on
the organization of your company.
For example, at Hippo,
we have principal engineers,
we have staff engineers,
which is really what I am now.
And then we also have senior engineers and
stuff like that.
And I think what happens is,
the company needs to have good structure
to where it gets to a point where
a principal needs to step in, right?
And be able to say okay,
let's reconsider why we're doing this and
let's think about what we did before.
That's also, I kinda talk about that
in the DevOps for developers course,
which is DevOps is not just implementing.
Because again, a month later you'll
have a completely different system.
It's about thinking about,
why you're doing what you're doing.
Sometimes, it's not the expectation of
somebody who's just taking tickets and
building things all day to do that.
But it is on the responsibility
of your engineering manager,
of your product manager to be able to
say okay, we need to pull in a principle
here we need to pull in somebody
else to help with the knowledge gap.
But understanding that
knowledge gap is important.
Don't do something just because you can,
have reason for it.
>> Speaker 1: What's your
TLDR answer to when should
you use backend architecture design?
>> Erik Reinert: I think,
again, kind of going back all
the way to this the quote from AI, right?
Part of it is noticing a problem
that might be happening.
You have to have a reason to do it.
If you're introducing complexity for
no reason,
then you're just really doing
something for yourself, right?
But as I do in DevOps and
things like that,
my goal is to help better a different part
or a certain part of the system, right?
So I would start first and
foremost by saying,
if you have a reason to do the design,
then you're already 50% of the way there.
But normally these designs come out of
problems that you're trying to solve,
right?
And so if you don't have
a problem that you're trying to
solve you probably don't need
to be doing any of this.
>> Speaker 4: What would be a good key
indicator that an existing system that
exists needs to be re-implemented or
re-architected from scratch?
>> Erik Reinert: So there's two parts to
that there's first the doesn't need to be
implemented, and the second part,
which is does it need to be
implemented from scratch, right?
I think you have to answer
them separately not together.
When you get to a point
in your career where you
start just looking at
problems as a detective
trying to solve them,
you need to have some
sort of trail of why we're here, right?
What has this produced as
a problem over a period of time.
Where are the breadcrumbs to finding that,
right?
At the end of the day,
you really just don't have any need
to change anything if there's no value or
reason to it.
So that's what I would say is
the first part is, find proof,
find evidence that helps with your theory,
of should it be changed, right?
I've heard this a lot, and I've slowly
begun to accept it more in my career,
which is just because you don't
like dealing with something,
doesn't mean it should be changed,
[LAUGH] right?
And a lot of the times in
DevOps especially going back to
the who are you helping,
if you're not helping anyone
making that change then
there's no value to it.
So again,
that breadcrumb is really important.
The second part of should
be changed entirely,
that becomes a much bigger scope, right?
And sometimes it even
is easier to say well,
let's change it a little bit now,
learn from that change, and
then see if we still need to change it
on a higher scale or on a bigger scope.
And if you do, then I think at
that point it becomes buy in.
Does anyone else at the company
feel the same way you do, right?
Can you find those people to jump behind
you and say yeah, this is a problem and
we need to do this.
It's really, really hard to make massive
change by yourself at a company,
especially a big company.
As a good example, like I said,
where I work right now we're
moving to Kubernetes, right?
Do you know what the first thing was said,
or when we brought up we
should move to Kubernetes?
Why, ECS is fine.
And they're not wrong, it does work,
it does run for us, right?
But our only argument with that
in the beginning was well,
because we wanna make our lives easier.
Which was true, but
it took us a year of research and
development to figure out well, we can
also improve our CD, our delivery system.
We can also improve our scaling we
can also give developers control over
routing and things like that, right?
And at that point I'm not
talking about Kubernetes,
I'm talking about problems
that I can solve.
So if you have a need to
make a change at that scale,
you also need to have a lot of reasons
as to why you should make such a change.
And normally, it cannot just be because of
you, or what you or even your team wants.
You normally want other
teams to back you so
that that radical change is easier to
promote through the company, yeah.
Again, it's salesman [LAUGH] why
buy this car instead of that car.
Well, because that one's a lot more
comfortable, [LAUGH] stuff like that.